## Month 09 - September 2020

## Week 01
Skipped

## Week 02 
#### Nick posted 1st video how to run a serverless node / express server using Google Cloud!


## Week 03 - Creating forms a long discussion on forms and inputs - by Bo

when to use the form tag vs. just an input with a button?
why use a ref and attach the event Listener over the inline option in the HTML?

#### error handling best patterns on this... 
lets talk about this, form vs. generic input. Using a form with a submit allow you to use the built in simple checks withing HTML such as is required. This makes it you cannot pass an empty field - undefined. But the validation checks are very limited and if you use the built in types like number you will have the the increment on the right hand side. You can set a min and max with the number input which is great but it only checks this when a submit occurs.  

##### addEventListener('input'
The input listener is a great tool as a user is inputing you can be checking for errors before the form has been submitted.


## best tooling practices so far Vanilla JS

a simple discussion on directory structure:
```
/public    
    /img
    /css
    .html
    .js

/src
    /scss
        .scss
    .ts
```
there are a few tools that I feel are essential to creating great HTML/CSS/JS files.

SCSS
If you are comfortable with CSS its time to watch a quick 20 min video on how SCSS works. There is no downside and all the upside, I say anything to make CSS files more organized! The SCSS extension needs a small tweak to output the compiled css files into the desired directory *see below on recommendations for directory structure. 

Typescript
If your comfortable with JS its time! Save yourself some headache and let the tools tell you an error before you spend hours trying to track it down! Typescript can init a config file inside of this you configure the JS language level and where it will complile its final .js files. 

